# From v0.3.X to v0.4.X

## Overview

Version 0.4 was initially motivated by an update to the way we handle user properties but ended as a major overhaul of the plugin to provide a better API and to give more control to the user.

## Plugin instanciation

The plugin now has an associated configuration, which you need to provide when you add it to your application.

The easiest way is to use the default configuration value :

```rust,no_run
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_ecs_tiled::prelude::*;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        // You still need the bevy_ecs_tilemap plugin
        .add_plugins(TilemapPlugin)
        // And now, you have to provide a configuration for bevy_ecs_tiled plugin
        .add_plugins(TiledMapPlugin::default())
        .run();
}
```

The plugin configuration is described in the [API reference](https://docs.rs/bevy_ecs_tiled/latest/bevy_ecs_tiled/struct.TiledMapPluginConfig.html)

## Tiled map spawn and configuration

The plugin entry point, ie. the `TiledMapBundle` bundle is gone.
It was cumbersome and did not allow for a proper separation of concerns (for instance, for physics).

Also, the `Handle<TiledMap>` type is not a Bevy component anymore.
It was done in order to anticipate expected changes in Bevy where `Handle<T>` won't be able to derive the `Component` trait anymore.

Anyway, the new way to spawn a map is now easier: you just have to spawn a `TiledMapHandle` referencing your .TMX file asset:

```rust,no_run
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_ecs_tiled::prelude::*;

fn startup(mut commands: Commands, asset_server: Res<AssetServer>) {
    // Load the map: ensure any tile / tileset paths are relative to assets/ folder
    let map_handle: Handle<TiledMap> = asset_server.load("map.tmx");

    // Spawn the map with default options
    commands.spawn(TiledMapHandle(map_handle));
}
```

You can customize various settings about how to load the map by inserting the [`TiledMapSettings`](https://docs.rs/bevy_ecs_tiled/latest/bevy_ecs_tiled/components/struct.TiledMapSettings.html) component on the map entity.

## Tiled user properties

Before this change, you had to define your custom types both in Tiled and in your rust code.
It was not user-friendly and error-prone.

Now, we take advantage of `bevy_reflect` to generate a file containing all the types known to Bevy.
This file can be imported in Tiled so you can use these types directly in the editor.

Migrating from the old implementation should be straight-forward.

First, you need need to update your custom types so they actually implement the `Reflect` trait :

- remove `#[derive(TiledObject)]`, `#[derive(TiledCustomTile)]`, `#[derive(TiledClass)]` and `#[derive(TiledEnum)]` derived traits. Make sure to also remove associated attributes.
- add `#[derive(Reflect)]` derive trait on the types you want to use in Tiled.
- make sure your components have the `#[reflect(Component)]` attribute

Then, in your main / in your plugin setup, you then need to register your types with Bevy :

- replace calls to `register_tiled_object::<T>()` with calls to `register_type::<T>()`.
- replace calls to `register_tiled_custom_tile::<T>()` with calls to `register_type::<T>()`.

The final step is to actually generate the types import file (run your game once) and import the types to Tiled.
Note that you may have to update your map / your tilesets to use the new types you just imported.

[**A dedicated guide about how to setup user properties is available in this book**](../guides/properties.md).

## Tiled physics

[**A dedicated guide about how to setup physics is available in this book**](../guides/physics.md).

## Map events

This is a new feature of this version which gives more control to the user over what he wants to do with a Tiled map.

[More information in the dedicated guide](../guides/map_events.md)

## Misc changes

### `enum MapPositioning`

Both enum name and fields name have been updated to better reflect what they actually do.
You should now use the new [`LayerPositioning`](https://docs.rs/bevy_ecs_tiled/latest/bevy_ecs_tiled/components/enum.LayerPositioning.html) enum.

### `fn from_isometric_coords_to_bevy()`

Parameters `tiled_position: Vec2` and `iso_coords: IsoCoordSystem` have been swapped for better consistency with other utility functions.
